# Text Analysis
Text analysis, or data mining, allows us to read texts in new ways.  The method may include many ways of statistically analyzing a corpus.    In our History Harvest project, we used Voyant to build word clouds and other interactive visualizations that illustrate for the reader the frequencies of words gathered in the oral histories of harvested objects.

Working with large collections of historical records like letters, transcribed interviews, and newspapers, can be very challenging and time consuming. Reading through or skimming thousands of pages of writing or print can make it hard to see patterns, or pick out key information without getting lost in the details. This is especially true with records that don't all have the same organization or structure. A historian could read batches of letters from World War II to try to learn about American society in the '40s, but this would be very time consuming, and they could miss out on important details. Think about how hard it would be if you were a future historian trying to learn about American history by reading tweets or Facebook posts. 
Text analysis lets us study these kinds of sources in big batches without getting bogged down in the details and missing out on important information. Researchers can use text analysis with tools like Voyant or Mallet to break down written sources into manageable pieces. We can figure out things like word frequency, relationships between key terms, and trends over time to discover important information. 



Text analysis, or data mining, is a method of “reading” which treats words like they are data. With computing technology, we can ask questions like “Do Charles Dickins novels use more words related to smell than most other novels?” and “Did General Washington’s letters to his wife have different sentiments (emotional words) than letters to his generals?” or “How did the topics in State of the Union addresses changing over the last century?” 
To answer these questions, computer programs help us analyze patterns of word usage. We can find the most common words (term frequency), or the most important topics (topic modelling). We can use this information to make graphs showing changing patterns over time. We can even visualize a birds-eye view of a text with “word clouds”, which displays the most common words as big and less-common words as small. 
For this project we used a program called Voyant to build word clouds and other interactive visualizations that illustrate for the reader the frequencies of words gathered in the oral histories of harvested objects.
