---
layout: item
title: Nana's Cobija
author: rebecca
itemid: 2019-08-10-ID0005
itemcontributor: Rebecca Neri
itemcreator: Rebecca's grandmother
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Blanket
itemdate: 
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: Pair of blue, yellow and white crocheted blankets, one larger than the other. 
categories: [ Sentimental,Practical ]
tags: [ material culture,family,immigration,blanket,crochet ]
---

## About This Item

This blanket was made for the interviewee by her grandmother. The secondary source ties to the object by presenting a comparative analysis of the roles immigrant elders play in their families’ lives vs the roles traditional American elders play. Among the informants, which included 4 Mexicans, immigrant elders tended to have more active roles in raising their grandchildren. This reflects why the interviewee’s grandmother put considerable work into making the blankets, and how her house was a source of community for many families.

The secondary source ties the object to the primary source by emphasizing community and what immigrants do to establish it. The primary source is a series of interviews of Latino Hoosier immigrants discussing their lives, many of whom discuss their immigration and involvement in Latino communities. While not all involve themselves with family, the interviews give insight into another major form of community--churches. The primary source was found by searching for immigration and community. 

## From the Contributor

One of the things that I miss about her is that I would go to her house every Sunday and we would just have coffee and eat bread and just talk about life. And this is what she—a lot of the time—she would be doing at the table and we’d be sitting there. If I could bring that table, I would’ve brought that table.
