---
layout: item
title: Pano
author: SRS
itemid: 2019-10-03-0010
itemcontributor: Tattu
itemcreator: Homemade item, creator unknown
itemsubjecturl: ++
itemsubject: Household item
itemdate: unknown
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: Gray, handmade blanket with purple, red, pink, blue, orange, and green patterns.
categories: [ Family Ties, Nostalgia, Community Culture]
tags: [ home, folk art quilts, Pano, handmade items, textile, Kyrgyzstan ]
---

## About This Item
USE IDEA OF PART OF A WHOLE W QUILTS TO GUIDE YOUR CLIO MAP/// THIS ARGUMENT HERE!!!!!!
Home textiles remain largely out of the public's eye as "historical items". Yet, many individuals have found comfort in a baby blanket or found identity through shirt making.

However, textiles, as many other material items, are fabrics of our identities. Indiana University shirts seen around campus are as much of a part of our identities as a baby blanket made by grandma. 
give us a way to show who we support and 

The secondary source ties to my item because it can be used to understand the cultural differences between Soviet Union Kyrgyzstan and Soviet Union. It explains cultural distinctions and preservation of culture in countries that were in the USSR. It also explains how these differences were not so stark and how some values were preserved from countries like Kyrgyzstan and how some individuals adhered more to USSR values. It’s a bit of a stretch for my item but I believe it is necessary to understand Soviet interactions in this area of the world that the item came from and how interesting it is that it still exists.

The secondary source might help me see a connection with the IU Archives item. I need to know more about the history of it. However, I would like to see the item through the lens of the secondary source- how this item withstands cultural differences and political changeover. If this doesn’t pan out, I might have to use the second and third primary sources listed. These would pertain more to seeing the item within a household.

Like quilts, shrydak (tush kyiz) are lost arts in present day Kyrgyzstan. Stephanie Bunns, in her field apprenticeship with Kyrgyz women, details the aesthetics and "borrowing" of motiffs. This is also demonstrated by quilts, whose aesthetics are found more as how individual squares work together to make the whole. Bunns describes this cohesive nature of shrydak/tush kyiz as well.

## From the Contributor

Atu Babu It’s called Pano it’s Turkish/Kurdish? traditional item so it’s basically handmade. <b> Women in central Asia, particularly in Kurdistan/Kyrgyzstan?, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan they do it with their families, daughters, aunts and it’s like a very communal activity I would say but sadly this culture is dying out because like, in the modern culture people or ladies they stopped doing it so yeah, this is quite traditional. Yeah, it’s a household item. It’s something that you can hang on the wall and there’s also like they do use similar items for covering some furniture or they also can cover a cradle for a baby or they can just cover maybe their floor sometimes or the wall you know so there’s different types of items similar to this one but this is for the wall so you can just hang it on the wall so yeah. I met it before I came to the US because I wanted to bring something cultural from my home country to show people here but similar items I used to see in my grandma’s house when I was a kid but now I don’t see them anymore because everything is getting very modern and people they’re becoming more, I don’t know, modern or just they’re losing the identity I guess I would say, culture. So it really reminds me [of] my grandma’s house and things that my grandma used to do so I just got it like in summer recently but yeah, I just wanted to show the cultural item of my home country. </b> She[my grandmother] lived in the south of Kyrgyzstan. There’s so many. Oh, she[my grandmother] used to draw me pomegranate trees, she was really good at it, and she used to draw me all the time and she was good at only drawing pomegranate trees for some reason. Not anything else, just doing pomegranate. And every time I would say “Grandma, draw me something” and she would just draw me pomegranate trees and I’m like “Ok, yeah!”
## Works Cited

BUNN, STEPHANIE. “A 'MAKING POINT OF VIEW': DEEP KNOWLEDGE FROM LOCAL PRACTICE, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO FELT-MAKERS IN KYRGYZSTAN.” Journal of Museum Ethnography, no. 24, 2011, pp. 23–40. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/41710453.

Krebs, Melanie. "Zwischen Handwerktradition und globalem Markt: Kunsthandwerker in Usbekistan und Kirgistan." Berlin, Klaus Schwarz, 2011.

Chochunbaeva, Dinara. "felt carpets (ala-kiyiz and shyrdak)." The Encyclopedia of Crafts in Asia Pacific Regions. https://encyclocraftsapr.com/felt-carpets-ala-kiyiz-and-shyrdak/.

IU Archives items that connect
coverlet http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/archivesphotos/results/item.do?itemId=P0031300&searchId=0&searchResultIndex=10
AIDS Memorial Quilt http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/archivesphotos/results/item.do?itemId=P0039603&searchId=2&searchResultIndex=1
