---
layout:
title: Recipes From the Heart of Hawaiis Puerto Ricans
author: Laura B. Martin-Robley	
itemid: 10-10-2019-0007
itemcontributor: Kalani Craig
itemcreator: Kalani's Cousins
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Familial Cookbook Containing Recipes
itemdate: ca. 1999
itemtype: Cookbook
shortdesc: A Cookbook of various recipes from the Puerto Rican Hawaiin community.
categories: Cooking Recipes Family History
tags: [ Individual Expression, Family Ties, Community Culture, Consumer Culture, Food, Island cooking Cooking, Puerto Rico Cooking, Hawaiian, Institute of Pacific Relations, Puerto Rican Immigration ]
 
 
items:
---

## About This Object 

This object is a family cookbook that has collected family recipes and local Puerto Rican as well as a few filipino cooking recipes, techniques, and historical information from these communities that have made Hawaii their home. This cookbook serves as a piece of history to its owner. It sheds a light onto a life in Hawaii that they did not live themselves. Since being from the “Mainland” meant being far from this culture, Being able to be in possession of the book allowed for a familial connection that otherwise would be hard to ascertain.

## How The Secondary Source Ties To Your Object

The secondary source I found ties to my object because it is a scholarly article that studies the in depth view of caribbean cooking and the various ways these small island countries create incredible food. The in depth literature gives insight to the cultural background that these communities such as the Puerto Ricans live in. Being able to connect these to the Hawaiian Puerto Ricans illustrates where these values and cultural ways of life got started and how they were brought to the Island state of Hawaii from other countries in the Caribbean.

Citation: Related Secondary Source Citation:
Higman, B. W. "COOKBOOKS AND CARIBBEAN CULTURAL IDENTITY: AN ENGLISH-LANGUAGE HORS D'OEUVRE." NWIG: New West Indian Guide / Nieuwe West-Indische Gids 72, no. 1/2 (1998): 77-95. http://www.jstor.org/stable/41849892.

## Connection Between Your Object and The Primary Source

The secondary source used, helped me bring together my primary source with my object, because it explained the importance of maintaining cultural values for minority groups everywhere. It explains the importance of keeping family traditions wherever one moves in life. This led me to find a folklore set of papers that explains the importance of how the Jewish people maintain their culture through food and cooking the same way their ancestors did. This allows for people to see how powerful cultural values and ways of life are for various groups of people around the world. 

Citation: Indiana University Folklore Institute student papers, 1967-2000Collection #: C627 http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/findingaids/vie w?docId=InU-Ar-VAD7971.xml&brand=genera l&text1=food&text2=history&op1=and&op2=an d&field1=text&field2=text&field3=text&startDo c=1

  






