---
layout: item
title: Red Lipstick
author: AJ Boyd
itemid: 2019-10-03-0012
itemcontributor: AJ Boyd
itemcreator: Isha Namburu
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: 
itemdate: 
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: 
categories: [ Make up,Identity ]
tags: [ culture, make up, red lipstick, confidence, identity, personal style ]
---

## About This Item

The owner of the **lipstick** perceives the object as something that added value to sense of **self worth** and **confidence**. The object defined as well as enhanced her personality. The lipstick and her face, together created a work of art. She considered herself a beautiful plain canvas which was filled with colors. This thought process resonates with Estee lauder's definition of beauty which says that every face is unique. Each face is beautiful because it has its own individual personality and depth. If the 19th century considered genuine beauty as different from, the 21st century is into believing exactly the opposite. Grooming and beauty are essentially a **fashion statement** and the growing cosmetic products industry is evidence of this trend. Judith Goldstein believes that the modernist aesthetic is linked organically to individual identities. Private and personal styles is as good as a fingerprint, providing a uniqueness and private identity that marks its own way into the world. This is precisely what was forged by the owner of the lipstick. The fact that she came to be known for her unique ability to wear her lipstick colors in tandem with her outfits and that she was mentioned in a valedictorian speech, affirm the creation of a unique personality whose individuality blossomed with her personal style.

## From the Contributor

These boots signify a time of transition for me in my life, paralleling and expressed by a shift in style and self-expression. I thought about using a photo of new Timberlands but the stains and wear marks on these boots are each a different experience I've had while I wore them. 
