---
layout: item
title: 21 Club Hat
author:
itemid: 2019-10-03-0001
imagecredit:
itemcontributor: Ethan Shiman
itemcreator:
itemsubject:
itemacquiredwhere: NJ
itemindianacity: Bloomington
itemdatemade:
itemtype:
shortdesc:
categories: [  ]
tags: [  ]
---
## About This Item


## From the Contributor
Interviewer: Tell me about your hat.

Interviewee: So I got this hat in New York City, um, at a restaurant called the Twenty-One Club. It’s like a restaurant that has a lot of history. Um. It was like a Prohibition era bar, and they got shut down and then had to move around New York City a bunch of times. Eventually they relocated, and now if you go there on your twenty-first birthday, they give you a hat. So it wasn’t my twenty-first birthday, but I did manage to like get a hat from somebody. So now me and my sister both have them, and it’s a very sentimental thing. And you probably can’t get it online.

Interviewer: Were you and your sister there at the same time?

Interviewee: Yeah, she had been there once before me with just my Father and then my Dad took us both when I came back from school.

Interviewer: And when was the day that you got the hat?

Interviewee: It was actually this past May. I went to Billy Joel’s concert for his birthday, and we went to the restaurant before.

Interviewer: Why Billy Joel?

Interviewee: My Mom really likes Billy Joel, but it was a birthday present. Yeah, so we went there, and it was also his birthday the day that he performed, so it kind of lined up as well. 

Interviewer: It was a great day to be born, right?

Interviewee:It was, yeah.

Interviewer: How does this object reflect your identity or sense of belonging to a particular community?

Interviewee: Hmmm. Well, I definitely would say that he is jealous of me of this hat.

Interviewer: Who is he?

Interviewee: Max over here, my buddy Max. So I actually went out and bought him a hat. It says twenty-one on it, and I had it made, so he didn’t feel out. So it’s like an inclusive thing now. And it’s very coveted. You can’t really get it, it’s not easy to track down. That’s why I identify with it.
