---
layout: item
title: Grateful Dead Hat
author: Andy Floyd
itemid: 2019-10-01-0003
itemcontributor: Drew Heiderscheidt
itemcreator: Grateful Dead Productions
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Hat
itemdate: ca. 2018
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: A turquoise strap-back hat with a Grateful Dead dancing bear on the front 
categories: 
tags: 
---

## About This Item

The secondary source “Romanticizing Rock Music” makes a connection to this object through the ties that the Grateful Dead created to a niche of rock. Also, makes a connection to the art they created outside of the more common side of rock and roll that ended up going mainstream. To many people the Grateful Dead established a free-flowing art form by their “jam-band” sound. The rock and roll music they created was backed by a special community called “Dead Heads” that viewed their creations as art to be shared amongst each other. 

In ties between the secondary source, the hat, and primary source, I found a connection in relation to the significance of Rock and Roll to the *culture* of our society. Rock and Roll grew tremendously throughout the 20th century and still stands today as a means of personal connection and a loved art by many people around the world. The hat is an example of the appreciation of the explosion of art described in the primary source and it’s appreciation throughout the decades it has been around.

## From the Contributor

This hat is symbolic of his fandom of the Grateful Dead. It also provides a connection between himself and other people within Bloomington that share the same fandom and sport the same type of gear around campus.
 
